---
title: "Project Committal"
date: 2015-03-05T01:13:41Z
tags: [XXXXXX]
categories: ["blog import"]
draft: false
---
 
I have had a lot of problems with starting projects and not following through.
It took me about a year to work through the Ruby koans official site
[http://rubykoans.com/]|my code [https://github.com/magikid/my-ruby-koans]. And
they were simple programming exercises designed to introduce you to the
language. I say no more.

This is the year that I stop starting without finishing, at least where
programming is involved. I have recently started a new project that I intend to
be a sort-of showcase for my website building skills. So far, I just have the
idea but I want to start it right from the very beginning. To that end, before I
write a single line of code, I will be writing a functional spec
[https://github.com/magikid/bibliophilium/wiki/functional-spec] which lays out
the user interaction with the site. It is much easier to pick out issues with
the design when they're just ideas on paper. This will be completed by next
Wednesday (11 March 2015).

An example of when writing a spec first came in handy. I recently started a new
project at work. It will be a fairly simple site to create but it has some very
demanding customers. Before I started to write the code for their website, I sat
down and wrote a spec for their site. I laid out all the different pages of the
website. I wrote down likely use scenarios for the website. I put in things that
I wouldn't be supporting during development.

One of the customers came to visit me and discuss his ideas for the website.
Because I had already formulated my ideas for user interactions, I was able to
show him that we were already on the same page in our thinking. I was also able
to assure him that I didn't want to obliterate his current workflow and destroy
his productivity with my design. The best part for me was not having to
completely explain myself to him since I'd already done that in the document. I
was able to send him a link and say, read it yourself.

Back to my library project: the idea came for this site came to me because of
the lack of decent library software. No seriously. Look around if you don't
believe me. I just want a decent website that is mobile friendly to manage my
books. It would be great if it integrated with Amazon to pull in book covers
too. That in a nutshell is my new project. I will be building a library
management website. I'm sure this won't be my last post on the subject.

For the programmers in the audience, here's what my thinking is for that side of
the house. I'd love to use modern programming standards for this. The back end
will be coded using my beloved Ruby language. I haven't decided if I will use a
full Ruby on Rails [http://rubyonrails.org/] stack or a Rack application like 
Grape [https://intridea.github.io/grape/] for the API. I'm planning on using the 
JSON API [http://jsonapi.org/] standard either way for communication with the
front end. Speaking of, I want to use a javascript framework like AngularJS
[https://angularjs.org/] for the front end of the website. That way the website
has a very responsive feel to it. I also would like to learn more about how to
create a full website with AngularJS.

I've been dabbling around with javascript frameworks for about two weeks now.
I've tried out both AngularJS and EmberJS [http://emberjs.com/]. I liked the
models aspect of Ember more, especially since Angular doesn't have anything
close to models. But after playing around some and exploring both, I think I'm
going with Angular because of the support for it. I think it will be easier to
solve any problems that I have with it because of its popularity.
